Add EIP: Redeemable Tokens (#6732)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-draft_title_abbrev.md

> ---

Reviewer: I've assigned it as 6732, so you can update the EIP and your code.

title: Redeemable Tokens
description: A proposition for redeemable tokens
author: Lucaz Lindgren (@LucazFFz)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-4365-redeemable-tokens/13441
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2023-03-20
requires: 165
---

## Abstract

> [ERC-4365](./eip-draft_title_abbrev.md) outlines a smart contract interface that can represent any number of fungible and non-fungible redeemable token types. The standard builds upon the [ERC-1155](./eip-1155.md) standard borrowing many of the ideas introduced by it including support for multiple tokens within the same contract and batch operations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This EIP outlines a smart contract interface that can represent any number of fungible and non-fungible redeemable token types. The standard builds upon the [ERC-1155](./eip-1155.md) standard borrowing many of the ideas introduced by it including support for multiple tokens within the same contract and batch operations.
```

Example of use-cases for redeemable tokens:

- **General admission tickets** - Tickets allowing attendees entry to the event together with access to the regular event activities. This type of ticket could be fungible meaning they are interchangeable. The event can be held either physically or digitally.
- **VIP tickets** - All-access tickets that include everything the event offers with activities excluded from the general admission tickets to give the attendees a premium experience. These tickets can be non-fungible making every ticket unique and allowing each ticket to be connected to an individual artwork or likewise to incentivize purchasing VIP tickets instead.

Additionally, these tokens can be used to create, among others, vouchers, gift cards, and scratchcards.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

> **Every smart contract implementing this ERC MUST implement the all of the functions in the `ERC4365` interface. Additionally, they MUST implement the ERC-165 `supportsInterface` function and MUST return the constant value `true` if the constant value `0x9d1da9d1` is passed through the `interfaceId` argument.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Every smart contract implementing this ERC MUST implement the all of the functions in the `IRedeemableToken` interface. Additionally, they MUST implement the [ERC-165](./eip-165.md) `supportsInterface` function and MUST return the constant value `true` if the constant value `0x9d1da9d1` is passed through the `interfaceId` argument.**
```

```solidity

> interface IERC4365 is IERC165 {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
interface IRedeemableToken is IERC165 {
```

     */
    function balanceOfRedeemedBundle(address[] calldata accounts, uint256[][] calldata ids)
        external
        view
        returns (uint256[][] memory);

    /**
     * Redeem `amount` of token type `id` owned by `account`.
     *
     * Requirements:
     * - `account` cannot be the zero address.
     * - `amount` together with `account` balance of redeemed token of token type `id`
     * cannot exceed `account` balance of token type `id`.
     */
    function redeem (address account, uint256 id, uint256 amount, bytes memory data) external;
}
```

In addition, in order for a contract to be compliant with this ERC, it MUST abide by the following:

- Implementers MAY enable token transfers to support functionality such as ticket reselling.
- Implementers MUST NOT allow tokens to be transferred between addresses after they have been redeemed.
- Implementers MUST allow token holders to redeem their tokens.
- Implementers MUST NOT allow token issuers to redeem the tokens they have issued.
- Implementers SHOULD allow token recipients to burn any token they receive.
- Implementers MAY enable token issuers to burn the tokens they issued.

> **Smart contracts MUST implement all of the functions in the `ERC4365Receiver` interface to accept tokens being minted to them.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Smart contracts MUST implement all of the functions in the `IRedeemableTokenReceiver` interface to accept tokens being minted to them.**
```
